README.md, before:

# open-source-ai-contribution-policies

A list of policies by different open source projects about how to engage with AI-generated contributions.

**Feel free to submit Pull Requests with policies you find in other projects!**

## Policies
### Projects accepting AI-assisted contributions

- [Apache DataFusion](https://datafusion.apache.org): [AI-Assisted contributions](https://datafusion.apache.org/contributor-guide/index.html#ai-assisted-contributions)
- [Apache Kvrocks](https://kvrocks.apache.org/): [Guidelines for AI-assisted Contributions](https://kvrocks.apache.org/community/contributing/#guidelines-for-ai-assisted-contributions)
- [Apache® Software Foundation (ASF)](https://www.apache.org/): [ASF Generative Tooling Guidance](https://www.apache.org/legal/generative-tooling.html)
- [Arrow](https://arrow.apache.org): [AI-generated code](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/dev/developers/overview.html#ai-generated-code)
- [CloudNativePG](https://cloudnative-pg.io/): [AI Policy](https://github.com/cloudnative-pg/governance/blob/main/AI_POLICY.md)
- [conda](https://github.com/conda/conda): [Generative AI policy](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/dev-guide/contributing.html#generative-ai))
- [CPython](https://github.com/python/cpython): [Generative AI policy](https://devguide.python.org/getting-started/generative-ai/)
- [curl](https://curl.se/): [On AI Use in CURL](https://curl.se/dev/contribute.html#on-ai-use-in-curl)
- [DataJourneyHQ](https://datajourneyhq.com/) : [AI aware checklist](https://github.com/DataJourneyHQ/DataJourney/wiki/Contribution-Guidelines-(AI%E2%80%90Aware))
- [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/): [Security Policy > AI-Assisted Reports](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/internals/security/#ai-assisted-reports), [PR template](https://github.com/django/django/blob/main/.github/pull_request_template.md)
- [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com): [Automated Code and AI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/contributing/#automated-code-and-ai)
- [Firefox](https://github.com/mozilla-firefox/firefox): [Firefox AI Coding Policy](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/contributing/ai-coding.html)
- [Ghostty](https://ghostty.org/): [AI Usage Policy](https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/blob/main/AI_POLICY.md)
- [Homebrew](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/tree/main): [(AI/LLM) usage](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#artificial-intelligencelarge-language-model-aillm-usage)
- [IREE (Intermediate Representation Execution Environment)](https://iree.dev/): [AI tool use](https://iree.dev/developers/general/contributing/#ai-tool-use)
- [Jellyfin](https://jellyfin.org/): [Jellyfin LLM/"AI" Development Policy](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/contributing/llm-policies/)
- [Kornia](https://github.com/kornia/kornia/tree/main) : [AI_POLICY.md](https://github.com/kornia/kornia/blob/main/AI_POLICY.md)
- [LinkML](https://linkml.io/): [AI Covenant](https://github.com/linkml/linkml/blob/main/AI_COVENANT.md)
- [LLVM](https://llvm.org): [LLVM AI Tool Use Policy](https://llvm.org/docs//AIToolPolicy.html)
- [Matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org): [Restrictions on Generative AI Usage](https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/devel/contribute.html#generative-ai)
- [MicroPython](https://micropython.org): [Generative AI Policy](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/wiki/ContributorGuidelines#generative-ai-policy)
- [napari](https://napari.org): [AI use policy and guidelines](https://napari.org/dev/developers/contributing/ai.html)
- [OCaml](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml): [Guidelines relevant to AI-assisted contributions](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/blob/trunk/AI.md)
- [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org): [Automated contributions policy](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/dev/development/contributing.html#automated-contributions-policy)
- [Polars](https://pola.rs/): [AI Usage Policy](https://github.com/pola-rs/polars/blob/8425c750b9c5d28c79428998fda2320d076d4178/AI_POLICY.md)
- [Processing/p5.js](https://processing.org/): [AI Usage Policy](https://github.com/processing/processing4/blob/main/AI_USAGE_POLICY.md)
- [PyVista](https://pyvista.org): [Generative AI](https://github.com/pyvista/pyvista/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.rst#generative-ai)
- [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org): [Automated Contributions Policy](https://scikit-learn.org/dev/developers/contributing.html#automated-contributions-policy)
- [SciPy](https://scipy.org): [AI Policy](https://scipy.github.io/devdocs/dev/conduct/ai_policy.html)
- [SymPy](https://www.sympy.org): [AI Generated Code and Communication Policy](https://docs.sympy.org/dev/contributing/ai-generated-code-policy.html)
- [Zulip](https://zulip.com/): [AI use policy and guidelines](https://github.com/zulip/zulip/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#ai-use-policy-and-guidelines)

### Projects severely restricting AI contributions

- [GNOME Extensions](https://gjs.guide/extensions/development/creating.html): [Review Guidelines](https://gjs.guide/extensions/review-guidelines/review-guidelines.html#extensions-must-not-be-ai-generated)
- [NetBSD](https://www.netbsd.org/): [NetBSD Commit Guidelines](https://www.netbsd.org/developers/commit-guidelines.html) require explicit core approval for every contribution

### Projects rejecting AI contributions

- [Gentoo Linux](https://www.gentoo.org/): [AI Policy](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Council/AI_policy)
- [GoToSocial](https://gotosocial.org/): [Code of Conduct](https://codeberg.org/superseriousbusiness/gotosocial/src/branch/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- [Linux man-pages](): [AI - artificial intelligence policy](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/docs/man-pages/man-pages.git/tree/CONTRIBUTING.d/ai)
- [postmarketOS](https://postmarketos.org): [AI Policy](https://docs.postmarketos.org/policies-and-processes/development/ai-policy.html)

## Ongoing discussions

- [Fedora Council Policy Proposal: Policy on AI-Assisted Contributions](https://communityblog.fedoraproject.org/council-policy-proposal-policy-on-ai-assisted-contributions/)
- [musl-libc](https://musl.libc.org/): [Tentative policy](https://www.openwall.com/lists/musl/2024/10/19/3)
- [NumPy](https://numpy.org): [Mailing list discussion](https://mail.python.org/archives/list/numpy-discussion@python.org/thread/LAR7P3KQWHWAIKYSHTS2MY7X4HUBVA3L/)
- [Scientific Python](https://scientific-python.org): [Blog post: Community Considerations Around AI Contributions](https://blog.scientific-python.org/scientific-python/community-considerations-around-ai/)
- [scikit-image](https://scikit-image.org/): [PR#7982](https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/pull/7982)
- [QGIS](https://github.com/qgis/QGIS-Enhancement-Proposals/pull/363)

## Other references

- [Xarray's CLAUDE.md file](https://github.com/pydata/xarray/blob/main/CLAUDE.md)
- [Preparing JOSS for a generative AI future: From code to human creativity and design](https://blog.joss.theoj.org/2026/01/preparing-joss-for-a-generative-ai-future)
- [Navigating LLMs in Open Source: pyOpenSci’s New Peer Review Policy](https://www.pyopensci.org/blog/generative-ai-peer-review-policy.html)
- [scikit-learn's AGENTS.md file](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/blob/main/AGENTS.md)
- [agentic-oss-policy: Policy templates for protecting open source projects from autonomous AI agent abuse](https://github.com/guenp/agentic-oss-policy)
- [llama.cpp AGENTS.md file](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp/blob/master/AGENTS.md#instructions-for-llamacpp)
- [Pi (AI agent toolkit) – AGENTS.md file](https://github.com/badlogic/pi-mono/blob/4ba3e5be229a570187d8efbef5c14c0d5ce40dcc/AGENTS.md)
- [The "Vouch" system for managing trust in contributions](https://github.com/mitchellh/vouch)
- [Good Egg: Trust scoring for GitHub PR authors](https://github.com/2ndSetAI/good-egg)
- [Processing AGENTS.md file](https://github.com/processing/processing4/blob/main/AGENTS.md)
- [p5.js AGENTS.md file](https://github.com/processing/p5.js/blob/main/AGENTS.md)

## Acknowledgements

Many thanks to multiple contributors who shared links and contributed in private or on [Mastodon](https://pynews.com.br/@melissawm/116097821572556756) (let me know if you want attribution :smile:)

Commit message:

Add links from Jupyter Literature Review
Closes gh-13

README.md, after:

# open-source-ai-contribution-policies

A list of policies by different open source projects about how to engage with AI-generated contributions.

**Feel free to submit Pull Requests with policies you find in other projects!**

## Policies
### Projects accepting AI-assisted contributions

- [Apache DataFusion](https://datafusion.apache.org): [AI-Assisted contributions](https://datafusion.apache.org/contributor-guide/index.html#ai-assisted-contributions)
- [Apache Kvrocks](https://kvrocks.apache.org/): [Guidelines for AI-assisted Contributions](https://kvrocks.apache.org/community/contributing/#guidelines-for-ai-assisted-contributions)
- [Apache® Software Foundation (ASF)](https://www.apache.org/): [ASF Generative Tooling Guidance](https://www.apache.org/legal/generative-tooling.html)
- [Arrow](https://arrow.apache.org): [AI-generated code](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/dev/developers/overview.html#ai-generated-code)
- [CloudNativePG](https://cloudnative-pg.io/): [AI Policy](https://github.com/cloudnative-pg/governance/blob/main/AI_POLICY.md)
- [conda](https://github.com/conda/conda): [Generative AI policy](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/dev-guide/contributing.html#generative-ai))
- [CPython](https://github.com/python/cpython): [Generative AI policy](https://devguide.python.org/getting-started/generative-ai/)
- [curl](https://curl.se/): [On AI Use in CURL](https://curl.se/dev/contribute.html#on-ai-use-in-curl)
- [DataJourneyHQ](https://datajourneyhq.com/) : [AI aware checklist](https://github.com/DataJourneyHQ/DataJourney/wiki/Contribution-Guidelines-(AI%E2%80%90Aware))
- [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/): [Security Policy > AI-Assisted Reports](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/internals/security/#ai-assisted-reports), [PR template](https://github.com/django/django/blob/main/.github/pull_request_template.md)
- [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com): [Automated Code and AI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/contributing/#automated-code-and-ai)
- [Firefox](https://github.com/mozilla-firefox/firefox): [Firefox AI Coding Policy](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/contributing/ai-coding.html)
- [Ghostty](https://ghostty.org/): [AI Usage Policy](https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/blob/main/AI_POLICY.md)
- [Homebrew](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/tree/main): [(AI/LLM) usage](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#artificial-intelligencelarge-language-model-aillm-usage)
- [IREE (Intermediate Representation Execution Environment)](https://iree.dev/): [AI tool use](https://iree.dev/developers/general/contributing/#ai-tool-use)
- [Jellyfin](https://jellyfin.org/): [Jellyfin LLM/"AI" Development Policy](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/contributing/llm-policies/)
- [Kornia](https://github.com/kornia/kornia/tree/main) : [AI_POLICY.md](https://github.com/kornia/kornia/blob/main/AI_POLICY.md)
- [LinkML](https://linkml.io/): [AI Covenant](https://github.com/linkml/linkml/blob/main/AI_COVENANT.md)
- [LLVM](https://llvm.org): [LLVM AI Tool Use Policy](https://llvm.org/docs//AIToolPolicy.html)
- [Matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org): [Restrictions on Generative AI Usage](https://matplotlib.org/devdocs/devel/contribute.html#generative-ai)
- [MicroPython](https://micropython.org): [Generative AI Policy](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/wiki/ContributorGuidelines#generative-ai-policy)
- [napari](https://napari.org): [AI use policy and guidelines](https://napari.org/dev/developers/contributing/ai.html)
- [OCaml](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml): [Guidelines relevant to AI-assisted contributions](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/blob/trunk/AI.md)
- [Oxide](https://oxide.computer/): [Using LLMs at Oxide](https://rfd.shared.oxide.computer/rfd/0576)
- [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org): [Automated contributions policy](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/dev/development/contributing.html#automated-contributions-policy)
- [Polars](https://pola.rs/): [AI Usage Policy](https://github.com/pola-rs/polars/blob/8425c750b9c5d28c79428998fda2320d076d4178/AI_POLICY.md)
- [Processing/p5.js](https://processing.org/): [AI Usage Policy](https://github.com/processing/processing4/blob/main/AI_USAGE_POLICY.md)
- [PyVista](https://pyvista.org): [Generative AI](https://github.com/pyvista/pyvista/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.rst#generative-ai)
- [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org): [Automated Contributions Policy](https://scikit-learn.org/dev/developers/contributing.html#automated-contributions-policy)
- [SciPy](https://scipy.org): [AI Policy](https://scipy.github.io/devdocs/dev/conduct/ai_policy.html)
- [SymPy](https://www.sympy.org): [AI Generated Code and Communication Policy](https://docs.sympy.org/dev/contributing/ai-generated-code-policy.html)
- [Zulip](https://zulip.com/): [AI use policy and guidelines](https://github.com/zulip/zulip/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#ai-use-policy-and-guidelines)

### Projects severely restricting AI contributions

- [GNOME Extensions](https://gjs.guide/extensions/development/creating.html): [Review Guidelines](https://gjs.guide/extensions/review-guidelines/review-guidelines.html#extensions-must-not-be-ai-generated)
- [NetBSD](https://www.netbsd.org/): [NetBSD Commit Guidelines](https://www.netbsd.org/developers/commit-guidelines.html) require explicit core approval for every contribution

### Projects rejecting AI contributions

- [Gentoo Linux](https://www.gentoo.org/): [AI Policy](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Council/AI_policy)
- [GoToSocial](https://gotosocial.org/): [Code of Conduct](https://codeberg.org/superseriousbusiness/gotosocial/src/branch/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- [Linux man-pages](): [AI - artificial intelligence policy](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/docs/man-pages/man-pages.git/tree/CONTRIBUTING.d/ai)
- [postmarketOS](https://postmarketos.org): [AI Policy](https://docs.postmarketos.org/policies-and-processes/development/ai-policy.html)
- [QEMU](https://www.qemu.org): [Use of AI-generated content](https://www.qemu.org/docs/master/devel/code-provenance.html#use-of-ai-generated-content)

## Ongoing discussions

- [Fedora Council Policy Proposal: Policy on AI-Assisted Contributions](https://communityblog.fedoraproject.org/council-policy-proposal-policy-on-ai-assisted-contributions/)
- [Jupyter](): [AI-assisted code policy: "Literature Review"](https://github.com/jupyter/governance/issues/326)
- [musl-libc](https://musl.libc.org/): [Tentative policy](https://www.openwall.com/lists/musl/2024/10/19/3)
- [NumPy](https://numpy.org): [Mailing list discussion](https://mail.python.org/archives/list/numpy-discussion@python.org/thread/LAR7P3KQWHWAIKYSHTS2MY7X4HUBVA3L/)
- [Scientific Python](https://scientific-python.org): [Blog post: Community Considerations Around AI Contributions](https://blog.scientific-python.org/scientific-python/community-considerations-around-ai/)
- [scikit-image](https://scikit-image.org/): [PR#7982](https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/pull/7982)
- [QGIS](https://github.com/qgis/QGIS-Enhancement-Proposals/pull/363)

## Other references

- [Xarray's CLAUDE.md file](https://github.com/pydata/xarray/blob/main/CLAUDE.md)
- [Preparing JOSS for a generative AI future: From code to human creativity and design](https://blog.joss.theoj.org/2026/01/preparing-joss-for-a-generative-ai-future)
- [Navigating LLMs in Open Source: pyOpenSci’s New Peer Review Policy](https://www.pyopensci.org/blog/generative-ai-peer-review-policy.html)
- [scikit-learn's AGENTS.md file](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/blob/main/AGENTS.md)
- [agentic-oss-policy: Policy templates for protecting open source projects from autonomous AI agent abuse](https://github.com/guenp/agentic-oss-policy)
- [llama.cpp AGENTS.md file](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp/blob/master/AGENTS.md#instructions-for-llamacpp)
- [Pi (AI agent toolkit) – AGENTS.md file](https://github.com/badlogic/pi-mono/blob/4ba3e5be229a570187d8efbef5c14c0d5ce40dcc/AGENTS.md)
- [The "Vouch" system for managing trust in contributions](https://github.com/mitchellh/vouch)
- [Good Egg: Trust scoring for GitHub PR authors](https://github.com/2ndSetAI/good-egg)
- [Processing AGENTS.md file](https://github.com/processing/processing4/blob/main/AGENTS.md)
- [p5.js AGENTS.md file](https://github.com/processing/p5.js/blob/main/AGENTS.md)
- [Position Statement on Generative AI in the RSE Workplace](https://github.com/Academic-Data-Science-Alliance/rse-ai-position-statement/blob/main/RSE-AI-Final_Statement.md)
- [Exploring Solutions to Tackle Low-Quality Contributions on GitHub](https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/185387)

## Acknowledgements

Many thanks to multiple contributors who shared links and contributed in private or on [Mastodon](https://pynews.com.br/@melissawm/116097821572556756) (let me know if you want attribution :smile:)
